Telco Customer Churn Prediction

This Streamlit application is designed to predict customer churn for a Telco company based on various customer attributes. It utilizes a CatBoostClassifier model trained on historical customer data to make predictions.

Table of Contents
Introduction
Features
Requirements
Installation
Usage
Contributing
License
Introduction
Customer churn prediction is crucial for businesses, especially in subscription-based services like telecommunications. Predicting which customers are likely to churn allows companies to take proactive measures to retain them, ultimately reducing revenue loss.

This Streamlit application provides several functionalities:

Feature Importance: Visualizes the importance of each feature in predicting churn using SHAP (SHapley Additive exPlanations) values.

User-based SHAP: Allows users to select a specific customer and visualize how each feature contributes to the model's prediction for that customer.

Calculate the Probability of Churn: Enables users to input data for a new customer and predicts the probability of churn for the new customer.

Features

Model: Utilizes a CatBoostClassifier model trained on historical Telco customer data.

SHAP (SHapley Additive exPlanations): Provides explanations for individual predictions, helping understand the model's decision-making process.

Interactive Visualizations: Enables users to interactively explore feature importance and individual predictions.


Requirements
Python 3.7+
Streamlit
Pandas
Numpy
Matplotlib
CatBoost
Joblib
SHAP
Installation


To run the Streamlit application, use the following command:

streamlit run streamlitapp.py

Access the application via your web browser at the provided URL.

Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you find any issues or have suggestions for improvement, please open an issue or create a pull request.

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Feel free to customize this README to suit your specific project details and preferences.